A bibliography of genAI-fueled research fraud from 2025 – Sharon Kabel

Have you ever thought to yourself, “Boy, I hate all of these stupid AI tools and bots and add-ons. I wish I had a bibliography with 50 carefully arranged references, each one showing a different way AI is making everything worse, perhaps with selected quotations from each reference“? Do I have good news for you.

I’m a research librarian, with the bulk of my experience being in biomedical literature. Here is a simplified, incomplete sketch of how scientific research gets published.

1. Do the research: I conduct research, such as running a clinical trial to test a new drug, or giving an online survey to pediatric nurses, or analyzing a huge dataset of genomes.
2. Write it down: I write down my findings, and create visualizations (like bar charts) to more effectively illustrate my points. I also do a literature review, where I search for other papers on my topic, to make sure that my work isn’t redundant.
3. Share it: I share my findings, by submitting everything above to a conference or a journal (or both!). I include my affiliation (like Harvard Medical School), to demonstrate that I have some education and credentials. My submitted paper goes through peer review, where several experts check all of my work. My paper is published!
4. Reuse it: My paper is influential. Maybe it gets cited by other researchers in my field. Maybe it changes a clinical practice guideline, i.e. how doctors decide what to recommend to patients. Maybe it gets picked up by a mainstream publication, and everyone decides to throw out their black spatulas based on my paper.

Because I spend all day, and most of the night, reading and analyzing recently published information, I have the dubious opportunity of seeing every step hijacked by generative AI (genAI) and large language models (LLMs), like ChatGPT. There are documented cases of people using ChatGPT or its compatriots to:

- write articles and generate images
- find references for a literature review
- bulk submit articles to a bunch of conferences and journals
- conduct peer review
- bulk cite the paper, to make the paper look more influential

It is not only possible – it’s likely that a not-insignificant amount of new research has never been touched by human hands. Academic misconduct – like plagiarism or falsifying images – isn’t new. What is new is the scope, speed, and variety of misconduct, thanks to a few bad actors and many genAI tools. I have to see this in action all the time, so I want all of you to suffer with me. I have collated 50 stories published in the last ~12 months (or so) from scientific journals, magazines, and blogs about the misuse of genAI in research. This is not a comprehensive search, and it is distinctly not impartial. For the use cases listed above, I think using genAI in research is a colossal waste of time for everyone involved, with the only possible benefit being job security for fellow research librarians. (For clarity’s sake, I have removed most of the in-text footnotes from the block quotes.) Each reference below vividly illustrates either the titanic scope of research fraud currently going on, the creative ways some researchers misuse genAI, or the depressing apathy in response to this fraud. I grouped the references into: hallucinations; paper mills and peer review; creating data, text, and images; impersonating authors, journals, institutions, or metrics; retractions; and bots and crawlers. While I did not strictly follow their taxonomy, I owe many thanks to [Leslie MicIntosh’s and Will White’s “Combatting Truth Decay: A Taxonomy of Disinformation.](https://fosci.substack.com/p/combatting-truth-decay)” Their article and taxonomy were invaluable in helping me to organize my thoughts.

[Download references as a .csv](https://sharonkabel.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/12/degenerative_ai.csv)

## Table of Contents

- 1-6: Hallucinations
- 7-19: Paper mills and peer review
- 20-32: Creating data, text, and images
- 33-38: Impersonating authors, journals, institutions, or metrics
- 39-45: Retractions
- 46-50: Bots and crawlers

## 1-6: Hallucinations

If you ask an LLM to find 10 peer-reviewed articles on night shift work and cancer prevalence, ChatGPT or Claude or Grok will comply by giving you an impressive list of journal article citations. At least some of them will be completely made-up. These hallucinations, once invented, are hard to expunge from the world, and reference librarians have to spend an increasing amount of their time looking for something that doesn’t exist. These hallucinations have real-world consequences. In one example I cite below, a genAI ‘scribe’ in a doctor’s office invented a diabetes diagnosis for a patient, which was entered into the patient’s medical record.

“OpenAI’s ChatGPT, Google’s Gemini, Microsoft’s Copilot and other models are befuddling students, researchers and archivists by generating “incorrect or fabricated archival references,” according to the ICRC, which runs some of the world’s most used research archives. (Scientific American has asked the owners of those AI models to comment.) AI models not only point some users to false sources but also cause problems for researchers and librarians, who end up wasting their time looking for requested nonexistent records, says Library of Virginia chief of researcher engagement Sarah Falls. Her library estimates that 15 percent of emailed reference questions it receives are now ChatGPT-generated, and some include hallucinated citations for both published works and unique primary source documents. “For our staff, it is much harder to prove that a unique record doesn’t exist,” she says.”Vergano, Dan. “AI Slop Is Spurring Record Requests for Imaginary Journals.” Scientific American, December 8, 2025. [https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/ai-slop-is-spurring-record-requests-for-imaginary-journals/](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/ai-slop-is-spurring-record-requests-for-imaginary-journals/).

“On Nov. 1, Jeff Hancock, a well-known and oft-cited researcher who leads the Bay Area school’s Social Media Lab, filed an expert declaration in a Minnesota court case over the state’s new ban on political deepfakes. Republicans have sued to block the ban, arguing it’s an unconstitutional limit on free speech. Hancock defended the law in his declaration, explaining how artificial intelligence makes it easier to fabricate videos and discussed deepfakes’ psychological impacts. But he seems to have made an ironic mistake. Hancock cited 15 references in his declaration, mostly research papers related to political deepfakes and their impacts. Two of the 15 sources do not appear to exist.”Stephen Council. “Stanford Expert on ‘lying and Technology’ Accused of Lying about Technology.” SFGate, November 22, 2024. [https://www.sfgate.com/tech/article/stanford-professor-lying-and-technology-19937258.php](https://www.sfgate.com/tech/article/stanford-professor-lying-and-technology-19937258.php).

Artificial intelligence (AI) scribes that “listen” to clinical encounters and generate patient notes are being widely adopted throughout health care, with some institutions now using this software for millions of visits each year. To produce a draft note, AI scribes first create an audio re- cording and a transcript of the patient–clinician conversation. This development is remarkable: for the first time, clinical conversations are being recorded on a broad scale. Because of concerns about medical malpractice liability, however, many U.S. health care institutions are deleting transcripts after notes are finalized and aren’t receiving audio recordings from AI scribe systems at all. We believe this destruction of millions of clinical visit transcripts is unacceptable. It prevents meaningful evaluation of AI scribes, and clinical research and quality- improvement initiatives are limited to using flattened summary notes rather than the primary data of patients’ own words. Moreover, whereas clinical and research stakeholders currently lack access to detailed transcript data, AI companies are receiving valuable dialogue to train the next generation of conversational clinical AI tools. […] (The accuracy of transcripts themselves, which we believe warrants evaluation, also hasn’t been widely reported.) […] In light of a recent report describing an AI scribe hallucinating a patient’s having diabetes and suspected heart disease — information that made it into the patient’s chart and influenced care — generating these data is important.Goodman, Katherine E., and Daniel J. Morgan. “Digital Exhaust or Digital Gold? The Value of AI-Generated Clinical Visit Transcripts.” The New England Journal of Medicine, ahead of print, December 3, 2025. [https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMp2514616](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMp2514616).

“In June 2025, GPT-4o was prompted to generate 6 literature reviews (~2000 words; ≥20 citations) on 3 disorders. […] Overall, GPT-4o generated 176 citations from 6 literature reviews. A total of 35 (19.9%) citations were fabricated, and among the 141 nonfabricated citations, 77 (54.6%) contained bibliographic errors, with incorrect DOIs being the most prevalent error type.”Linardon, Jake, Hannah K. Jarman, Zoe McClure, Cleo Anderson, Claudia Liu, and Mariel Messer. “Influence of Topic Familiarity and Prompt Specificity on Citation Fabrication in Mental Health Research Using Large Language Models: Experimental Study.” JMIR Mental Health 12 (November 2025): e80371. [https://doi.org/10.2196/80371](https://doi.org/10.2196/80371).

“As we and others have observed, some authors of research papers have a bad habit of cutting corners when they compile references for their articles. Rather than dig up original citations, they simply copy reference lists from other sources (in other words, practice hearsay). The result: unreliable, retracted, or even phantom papers persist in the literature. In just one instance of which we’re aware, a made-up article in a made-up journal received nearly 400 citations.”Marcus, Adam, Ivan Oransky, and Alessandro De Cassai. “Please Don’t Cite This Editorial.” Journal of Clinical Anesthesia 108 (January 2026): 111741. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclinane.2025.111741](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclinane.2025.111741).

In addition, although both ChatGPT and Google Gemini provided citations for most answers, the accuracy and legitimacy of these references remained unclear. The absence of traceable evidence makes it difficult for patients and clinicians to confirm guideline concordance. These chatbots tend to fabricate or falsify information and lack citations. This allows easier fabrication of data. The Office of Research Integrity of the US Department of Health and Human Services defines fabrication as the creation of data, whereas falsification is the manipulation of research materials resulting in inaccurate representation. The literature refers to this phenomenon in AL models as “hallucinations”. Athaluri et al. found that among 178 references cited by ChatGPT, 69 lacked a DOI, and 28 of those were determined to be entirely fabricated. Another study conducted by Else23 asked ChatGPT to generate 50 artificial abstracts for review by medical researchers, who identified 32% of these as real.In our study, ChatGPT and Google Gemini’s information sources were unclear, potentially disconnecting patients from sources and hindering research. The two models were asked to list the resources used to generate the information. ChatGPT provided a total of 114 references, of which 42 were either fabricated or inaccurate, resulting in a 36.8% inaccuracy rate. Conversely, when Google Gemini was prompted to share the resources it used, it responded, “I apologize that I cannot directly fulfill your request for a traditional reference page from my own ‘sources’, but I hope the explanation and the suggestions for reputable organizations are helpful for your research.” and supplied links to home pages such as The Mayo Clinic and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists.West, Madeline, Amir Alsaidi, Rohail Siddiqi, et al. “Artificial Intelligence in Obstetrics and Gynecology: Evaluating ChatGPT and Google Gemini in Answering Patient Questions.” International Journal of Gynaecology and Obstetrics: The Official Organ of the International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, ahead of print, October 28, 2025. [https://doi.org/10.1002/ijgo.70622](https://doi.org/10.1002/ijgo.70622).

## 7-19: Paper mills and peer review

GenAI has made it easy to commit fraud at scale, to the point where journals and conferences have to completely rehaul what articles they accept – if any. One conference received 70% more submissions than it was expecting, likely from authors using genAI to multiply the number of articles they ‘wrote’. In response, some peer reviewers used genAI in order to get through all the submissions quickly, resulting in peer review feedback with hallucinated references and irrelevant comments.

“Conferences including NeurIPS are being overwhelmed with increasing numbers of submissions: NeurIPS fielded 21,575 papers this year, up from under 10,000 in 2020. Another top AI conference, the International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), reported a 70% increase in its yearly submissions for 2026’s conference, nearly 20,000 papers, up from just over 11,000 for the 2025 conference. The problem is bigger than a flood of papers at NeurIPS. ICLR’s reviewers used AI to review a large volume submissions – resulting in apparently hallucinated citations and feedback that was “very verbose with lots of bullet points”, according to a recent article in Nature. […] Meanwhile, says Farid, major tech companies and small AI safety organisations now dump their work on arXiv, a site once reserved for little-viewed preprints of math and physics papers, flooding the internet with work that is presented as science – but is not subject to review standards. The cost of this, says Farid, is that it is almost impossible to know what’s actually going on in AI – for journalists, the public, and even experts in the field: “You have no chance, no chance as an average reader to try to understand what is going on in the scientific literature. Your signal-to-noise ratio is basically one. I can barely go to these conferences and figure out what the hell is going on.”Down, Aisha. “Artificial Intelligence Research Has a Slop Problem, Academics Say: ‘It’s a Mess.’” The Guardian, December 6, 2025. [https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2025/dec/06/ai-research-papers](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2025/dec/06/ai-research-papers).

“In the past, arXiv CS received a relatively small amount of review or survey articles, and those we did receive were of extremely high quality, written by senior researchers at the request of publications like Annual Reviews, Proceedings of the IEEE, and Computing Surveys. Position paper submissions to arXiv were similarly rare, and usually produced by scientific societies or government study groups (for example,the Computing Research Association of the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine)…Fast forward to present day – submissions to arXiv in general have risen dramatically, and we now receive hundreds of review articles every month. The advent of large language models have made this type of content relatively easy to churn out on demand, and the majority of the review articles we receive are little more than annotated bibliographies, with no substantial discussion of open research issues.”Boboris, Kat. “Attention Authors: Updated Practice for Review Articles and Position Papers in arXiv CS Category.” ArXiv, October 31, 2025. [https://blog.arxiv.org/2025/10/31/attention-authors-updated-practice-for-review-articles-and-position-papers-in-arxiv-cs-category/?ref=404media.co](https://blog.arxiv.org/2025/10/31/attention-authors-updated-practice-for-review-articles-and-position-papers-in-arxiv-cs-category/?ref=404media.co).

““Our database is updated every day,” says Ivan Oransky, Retraction Watchʼs co-founder, in an interview with C2C. “Usually with about 40 new retractions daily.”” […] “According to the U.S. National Science Foundation, in 2022 China produced nearly 900,000 publications in the natural sciences and engineering, with the U.S. a distant second at 457,000. (Canada was tenth at 69,000.) But while Chinaʼs output is prodigious, itʼs likely that many papers represent illegitimate, bogus and/or useless, research. Bik says she has identified 400 papers coming from a single Chinese paper mill.”Cohen, Lynne. “Research to Ruin: The Worsening Spectre of Academic Fraud.” C2C Journal, January 21, 2025. [https://c2cjournal.ca/2025/01/research-to-ruin-the-worsening-spectre-of-academic-fraud/](https://c2cjournal.ca/2025/01/research-to-ruin-the-worsening-spectre-of-academic-fraud/).

“Ike Antkare is one of the world’s most prolific authors. Antkare, protégé of Cyrile Labbé, does not exist and never has. He continues to publish. Many on the Scopus list of prolific authors started publishing decades before they were born. One author of 12 academic papers with 144 citations and an h-index of 12 is Larry the cat. Author lists can resemble mini CVs packed with institutional affiliations to impress editors. Affiliations of co-authors are frequently mythical, as are many co-authors. China has manipulated itself to world leader in highly-cited research, and Clarivate ISI has re-classified 1,000 authors from its annual list of 6,849 highly-cited authors as ‘fraudulent.’ […] Some years ago, 16% of papers published in the prestigious New England Journal of Medicine had ghost authors, and no fewer than 44% had honorary authors. Guest, gift and honorary authors (who write nothing) are everywhere. How else could some academics claim to have written hundreds of papers a year? One at Nottingham Trent University attaches his name to a couple of papers a week, amassing 50,000 citations in just five years. One Spanish academic publishes at the rate of a paper every 37 hours. The number of authors publishing more than 60 papers a year has almost quadrupled in a decade. Desperate to maintain some propriety, some journals expect authors to identify their contribution to papers, as if a system that accommodates fictional authors would baulk at fabricating their function. When those listed as a paper’s authors have had nothing to do with creating the paper and have no idea who has, authorship has little meaning. Commendably diplomatic, Wilhite and Fong use the term ‘fungible’. Papers are produced to be cited and reading need not extend beyond title, abstract and keywords.”MacDonald, Stuart. “Does Authorship Mean Anything When Academic Papers Are Simply Citable Tokens?” London School of Economics, February 17, 2025. [https://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2025/02/17/does-authorship-mean-anything-when-academic-papers-are-simply-citable-tokens/](https://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2025/02/17/does-authorship-mean-anything-when-academic-papers-are-simply-citable-tokens/).

“Redundant publication, the practice of submitting the same or substantially overlapping manuscripts multiple times, distorts the scientific record and wastes resources. Since 2022, publications using large open-science data resources have increased substantially, raising concerns that Generative AI (GenAI) may be facilitating the production of formulaic, redundant manuscripts…We conducted a systematic search for the years 2021 to 2025 (year to end-July) to identify redundant publications using the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) dataset. […] The literature search and manuscript matching process generated 411 paired redundant exposure- outcome documents. […] Redundant publications can also amplify bad research. For example, vitamin D intake can be correlated with depression, but using NHANES data the association between insufficient serum vitamin D and depression has been shown by Diaz-Amaya et al. to be fully attenuated after adjusting for food security and diet quality. 30 Nonetheless, here we have identified three publications taking a simplistic single-factor approach reporting that serum vitamin D is associated with depression, findings which we regard as unsound. Therefore, misleading publications on serum vitamin D using NHANES outnumber the more thorough analysis in a 3:1 ratio. A simple comparison by Google Scholar shows citations for these publications in a 30:2 ratio. This is likely to be a major problem for those that are not domain experts – epistemic trespassers are much more likely to take the ‘weight’ of publication or citation counts as indicative of evidence. In so doing, epistemic trespassers can then further propagate low-quality results.”Maupin, Danny, Tulsi Suchak, Adrian Barnett, and Matt Spick. “Dramatic Increases in Redundant Publications in the Generative AI Era.” MedRxiv, ahead of print, 2025. [https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.09.09.25335401](https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.09.09.25335401).

“In recent years, the issue of scientific research integrity has attracted worldwide attention. From the viewpoint of disciplines, the problem of retraction in the biomedical field is particularly prominent, and the large-scale retraction of Tumor Biology has shocked the academic community at home and abroad. […] In 2023, more than 10,000 research papers were withdrawn, creating the largest number of retractions in history. […] The retracted papers did not label AI-assisted writing in their articles. In addition, ChatGPT and AI-assisted writing software tools generate fake references, while these AI-assisted articles passed peer review, which resulted in a deeper problem. Peer review experts often do not have enough time to thoroughly review manuscripts to discern whether there are signs of AI use. The rapid rise of artificial intelligence has provided ample ammunition for “paper factories” to produce low-quality and unscientific articles. Some articles were submitted and published without the knowledge or consent of the principal investigator (PI), and the author voluntarily requested the retraction of the article. One study found that the number of oncology retractions published by Chinese scholars from 2013 to 2022 was as high as 2695. The retractions were published from 2017 to 2020, and research articles accounted for 94.17%.”Qi Quan, Huang Jiaqun, Wu Yinhang, Pan Yuefen, Zhuang Jing, and Yang Xi. “Recent Trends: Retractions of Articles in the Oncology Field.” Heliyon 10, no. 12 (2024). [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e33007](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e33007).

“Every part of this review reads as if it has been copy-pasted from a template. In fact, that’s exactly what happened: if you search Google for phrases like “only for a matter of consistency”, “area unfolding in the next 5 years” or “correctly included important”, you will find dozens of peer reviews that are functionally identical to this one. Nearly all of them feature the same request for citations to barely-relevant “recent papers” and almost all of the requested citations feature one author in common: an Italian oncologist named Alessandro Rizzo. Bear with me, now—I think that Rizzo might have written these reviews. Some of them (example) are actually signed by Rizzo. I even found one article where the authors reach through the veil of anonymity to scold Rizzo for shamelessly fishing for citations. At the time of writing, Rizzo’s Web of Science profile shows 487 verified peer reviews since 2020 (since only a fraction of peer reviews get counted through Web of Science, this is probably a massive undercount). Coercive citation requests like this are alarmingly common, but the scale of this operation was something else. […] I shared this case with María de los Ángeles Oviedo-García, who recently discovered a set of apparent “review mills”, large-scale operations whereby signed and anonymous reviewers use incredibly similar peer review templates to facilitate fast peer review and direct citations to themselves and colleagues. María agreed that we are probably seeing something very similar here and immediately identified dozens more reviews matching this template, including several more signed by Ricci and one signed by Giovanni Brandi, another frequent coauthor.”Richardson, Reese. “The World’s Laziest Peer Reviewer.” Reese Richardson (Blog), September 15, 2025. [https://reeserichardson.blog/2025/09/15/the-worlds-laziest-peer-reviewer/](https://reeserichardson.blog/2025/09/15/the-worlds-laziest-peer-reviewer/).

“After applying our model to the cancer research corpus from 1999 to 2024, there were 261,245 papers flagged as including textual characteristics of retracted paper mill papers – representing 9.87% (95% CI 9.83 to 9.90) of all original cancer research papers.”Scancar, Baptiste, Jennifer A. Byrne, David Causeur, and Adrian G. Barnett. “Revealing the Paper Mill Iceberg: AI-Based Screening of Cancer Research Publications.” BioRxiv, ahead of print, 2025. [https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.08.29.673016](https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.08.29.673016).

“Starting around 2023, a curious trend took hold in papers on drug safety monitoring. The number of articles published on an individual drug and its link to specific adverse events went from a steady increase to a huge spike. The data source in most of those articles was largely the same: The FDA Adverse Events Reporting System, or FAERS. In 2021, around 100 studies mining FAERS for drug safety signals were published. In 2024, that number was 600, with more than that already published this year. Two journals in particular published the bulk of these papers, Frontiers in Pharmacology and Expert Opinion on Drug Safety. In response to the flood, Frontiers started to require independent validation of studies drawing on public datasets. And Expert Opinion on Drug Safety decided in late July to stop accepting submissions altogether that use the FAERS database for this particular type of study. “By presenting mere statistical associations as ‘safety signals’, these publications can generate unjustified alarms with considerable impact on healthcare provider practices and patient behaviors,” Charles Khouri, a pharmacologist at Grenoble Alpes University Hospital in France, and colleagues wrote in a preprint posted Sept. 14 that looks at the spike in pharmacovigilance studies. The work comes on the heels of sleuths identifying FAERS as one of several publicly available datasets being exploited by paper mills, pumping hundreds of often meaningless and sometimes misleading papers into the scientific literature.”Travis, Kate. “Exclusive: Journal Bans Drug Safety Database Papers as They Flood the Literature.” Retraction Watch, 2025. [https://retractionwatch.com/2025/09/16/exclusive-journal-bans-drug-safety-database-papers-as-they-flood-the-literature/](https://retractionwatch.com/2025/09/16/exclusive-journal-bans-drug-safety-database-papers-as-they-flood-the-literature/).

“Research papers from 14 academic institutions in eight countries — including Japan, South Korea and China — contained hidden prompts directing artificial intelligence tools to give them good reviews, Nikkei has found. Nikkei looked at English-language preprints — manuscripts that have yet to undergo formal peer review — on the academic research platform arXiv. It discovered such prompts in 17 articles. […] “It’s a counter against ‘lazy reviewers’ who use AI,” said a Waseda professor who co-authored one of the manuscripts. Given that many academic conferences ban the use of artificial intelligence to evaluate papers, the professor said, incorporating prompts that normally can be read only by AI is intended to be a check on this practice. Peer review is an essential part of the publishing process, evaluating the quality and originality of papers. But as the number of submitted manuscripts rises, with few experts available to review them, some reviewers have turned to AI.”Sugiyama, Shogo, and Ryosuke Eguchi. “‘Positive Review Only’: Researchers Hide AI Prompts in Papers.” Nikkei, July 1, 2025. [https://asia.nikkei.com/business/technology/artificial-intelligence/positive-review-only-researchers-hide-ai-prompts-in-papers](https://asia.nikkei.com/business/technology/artificial-intelligence/positive-review-only-researchers-hide-ai-prompts-in-papers).

On October 22, 2024, the journal Neurosurgical Review stopped accepting letters to the editor and commentary papers. “At Neurosurgical Review, a Springer Nature title, letters, comments, and editorials comprised 58% of the total output from January to October — up from 9% last year. More than 80% of these commentaries are from South Asian countries, compared with fewer than 20% of research and review articles. Science and Retraction Watch’s investigation suggests authors, journals, and institutions all benefit from the scheme, which floods the literature with poor-quality publications and casts doubt on metrics of scholarly output and impact. For authors, commentaries can be a quick and easy way to amass publications and citations.”Joelving, Frederik. “AI-Generated Commentaries Flood Journals, Distort Metrics.” Science (New York, N.Y.) 386, no. 6728 (2024): 1331–32. [https://doi.org/10.1126/science.adv4101](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.adv4101).

“Dozens of academics have raised concerns on social media about manuscripts and peer reviews submitted to the organizers of next year’s International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), an annual gathering of specialists in machine learning. Among other things, they flagged halluci- nated citations and suspiciously long and vague feedback on their work. […] Pangram [Labs] screened all 19,490 studies and 75,800 peer reviews submitted for ICLR 2026, which will take place in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in April. Neubig and more than 11,000 other AI researchers will be attending. Pangram’s analysis revealed that around 21% of the ICLR peer reviews were fully AI-generated, and more than half contained signs of AI use.”Naddaf, Miryam. “Major AI Conference Flooded with Peer Reviews Written Fully by AI.” Nature 648, no. 8093 (2025): 256–57. [https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03506-6](https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03506-6).

“In a 2022–2023 survey of medical residents at tertiary hospitals in southwest China, 46.7% of respondents self-reported buying and selling papers, letting other people write papers, or writing papers for others. […] There is a perception among many practicing scientists that scientific fraud is a rare phenomenon resulting from the actions of isolated actors. Mounting evidence, however, suggests the possibility that fraud is a more pervasive phenomenon; that defectors target journals to facilitate the publication of fraudulent science at scale. […] We also find that the number of retracted articles has been increasing exponentially over the last 30 y (Fig. 5B). Remarkably, and testifying to the enormous impact of postpublication review efforts, we find the number of articles with PubPeer comments has also been increasing exponentially. To provide perspective, we note that the number of retracted articles and PubPeer-commented articles has been doubling every 3.3 y and every 3.6 y, respectively, while the total number of publications has been doubling every 15.0 y. However, suspected paper mill products have been doubling every 1.5 y (SI Appendix, Figs. S19 and S20). Notably, suspected paper mill products now outnumber annually retracted articles and are projected to soon outnumber the number of PubPeer-commented articles.”Richardson, Reese A. K., Spencer S. Hong, Jennifer A. Byrne, Thomas Stoeger, and Luís A. Nunes Amaral. “The Entities Enabling Scientific Fraud at Scale Are Large, Resilient, and Growing Rapidly.” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 122, no. 32 (2025): e2420092122. [https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2420092122](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2420092122).

## 20-32: Creating data, text, and images

Arguably the easiest and most common use for genAI in research is while writing the paper. While some authors may use genAI for light editing, some may rely heavily or completely on genAI to write entire paragraphs and/or generate images, with outrageous outcomes. Some authors may disclose genAI use, but many – probably most either don’t disclose, or only partly admit how much they used genAI. This particular use of genAI has sparked urgent discussions about what authorship really means.

“From 1 January to 30 June, the team found, 36% of the abstracts in 7177 manuscripts submitted to [the American Association for Cancer Research] contained at least some AI-generated text. But when asked in an automatic step in the submission process to disclose any use of AI to prepare the manuscript, authors only did so for 9% of the papers studied. […] AACR is considering next steps in response to Evanko’s findings, including using the new tool to screen all submissions. But with more than 2500 AACR submissions flagged for AI-generated abstracts from January to June alone, “It’s too many to put a human in the loop” to follow up on each undisclosed instance, he says.”Brainard, Jeffrey. “Far More Authors Use AI to Write Science Papers than Admit It, Publisher Reports.” Science 389, no. 6766 (2025): 1168–69. [https://doi.org/10.1126/science.z87syeh](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.z87syeh).

“To understand the occurrence of ChatGPT (co-)authored work in Google Scholar’s index, we scraped it for publications, including one of two common ChatGPT responses (see Appendix A) that we encountered on social media and in media reports. The results of our descriptive statistical analyses showed that around 62% did not declare the use of GPTs…More than half (57%) of these GPT-fabricated papers concerned policy-relevant subject areas susceptible to influence operations. […] As apparent from Table 2, GPT-fabricated, questionable papers are seeping into most parts of the online research infrastructure for scholarly communication. Platforms on which identified papers have appeared include ResearchGate, ORCiD, Journal of Population Therapeutics and Clinical Pharmacology (JPTCP), Easychair, Frontiers, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineer (IEEE), and X/Twitter. Thus, even if they are retracted from their original source, it will prove very difficult to track, remove, or even just mark them up on other platforms. […] Google Scholar’s central position in the publicly accessible scholarly communication infrastructure, as well as its lack of standards, transparency, and accountability in terms of inclusion criteria, has potentially serious implications for public trust in science. This is likely to exacerbate the already-known potential to exploit Google Scholar for evidence hacking and will have implications for any attempts to retract or remove fraudulent papers from their original publication venues.”Haider, Jutta, Kristofer Rolf Söderström, Björn Ekström, and Malte Rödl. “GPT-Fabricated Scientific Papers on Google Scholar: Key Features, Spread, and Implications for Preempting Evidence Manipulation.” Harvard Kennedy School Misinformation Review, ahead of print, 2024. [https://doi.org/10.37016/mr-2020-156](https://doi.org/10.37016/mr-2020-156).

“Scientific publisher Springer Nature has begun to retract dozens of papers that relied on a dataset fraught with ethical and reliability concerns, The Transmitter has learned. Five papers have been retracted since 16 November, and 33 more retractions are planned. […] The papers attempted to train neural networks to distinguish between autistic and non-autistic children in a dataset containing photos of children’s faces. Retired engineer Gerald Piosenka created the dataset in 2019 by downloading photos of children from “websites devoted to the subject of autism,” according to a description of the dataset’s methods, and uploaded it to Kaggle, a site owned by Google that hosts public datasets for machine-learning practitioners. The dataset contains more than 2,900 photos of children’s faces, half of which are labeled as autistic and the other half as not autistic. After learning about a paper that cites the dataset, “I went and downloaded the dataset, and I was completely horrified,” says Dorothy Bishop, emeritus professor of developmental neuropsychology at the University of Oxford. “When I saw how it was created, I just thought, ‘This is absolute bonkers.’” Without identifying each child in the dataset, there is no way to confirm that any of them do or do not have autism, Bishop says. The children pose at different angles under different lighting and have different expressions, Bishop says, which adds noise to the dataset…Because the images were downloaded from various websites, it is doubtful that the children or their families gave consent for them to be used in research, says Gail Alvares, principal research fellow at the Kids Research Institute Australia.”McMurray, Calli. “Exclusive: Springer Nature Retracts, Removes Nearly 40 Publications That Trained Neural Networks on ‘Bonkers’ Dataset.” The Transmitter, ahead of print, 2025. [https://doi.org/10.53053/XFKN9077](https://doi.org/10.53053/XFKN9077).

“For behavioral scientists struggling to recruit enough subjects for their studies, artificial intelligence (AI) offers a tantalizing solution: artificial “participants” that can stand in for real people. Researchers have already reported that these so-called silicon samples produce humanlike responses in some surveys and experiments— and some even hope they could simulate the responses of minorities or other groups who are often underrepresented in studies. But a new preprint calls for caution before researchers make the leap. Those who turn to AI samples face a dizzying array of choices— from which large language model (LLM) to use, to its settings, to precisely what information it is fed. According to the paper, posted to arXiv last month, these decisions can result in wide-ranging and even contradictory results— and no specific combination of choices produces data that best match human responses.”O’Grady, Cathleen. “AI-Generated ‘Participants’ Can Lead Social Science Experiments Astray, Study Finds.” Science 390, no. 6769 (2025): 118–19. [https://doi.org/10.1126/science.z232cbo](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.z232cbo).

“In 2023, researchers at Google released what they claimed was 800 years’ worth of knowledge in a single study. The study, published by the prominent journal Nature, revealed that 2.2 million new crystal structures had been discovered using an artificial intelligence tool. […] Kurlin and colleagues found that the GNoME database contained 1,224 pairs of crystal structures that were exact duplicates. His team also found 43 triplets (three exact duplicate crystals) and one quadruplet. “We still don’t know how it was possible to miss” them, Kurlin says about the exact duplicates. […] But Kurlin and Widdowson’s findings haven’t been welcomed as widely as the researchers had hoped. After they published their original data, more than 83,000 entries in the GNoME database—more than 20% of its crystal structures—were quietly removed without acknowledgment of any of the concerns raised, Kurlin says…But Kurlin and Widdowson still think the GNoME study should be retracted by Nature. “We think it should not have passed peer review,” Kurlin says.”Chawla, Dalmeet Singh. “Duplicate Structures Haunt Crystallography Databases.” C&EN: Chemical & Engineering News, December 16, 2025. [https://cen.acs.org/research-integrity/Duplicate-structures-haunt-crystallography-databases/103/web/2025/12](https://cen.acs.org/research-integrity/Duplicate-structures-haunt-crystallography-databases/103/web/2025/12).

“The wording is full of tortured phrases, a specific way of rewording text used by authors who want to disguise plagiarized text. To avoid detection by plagiarism detection tools, they run the copied text through ‘synonymizer’ software to find alternative words. It can result in nonsensical or even funny-sounding phrases. […] In the preprint, the authors describe 20 patients with “provocative entrail illness” (read: inflammatory bowel disease) who are described in detail. They all had a 3-day sickness, they all had “irregular stomach torment alongside discontinuous ridiculous stools as of late”, and they had all been in contact with “youngsters” two days earlier. Hmmm, all 20 of them? Then their blood test results are not given as average values, but as very specific measurements: “Blood tests upon the arrival of affirmation showed a C-responding protein of 86 mg/L, a typical white platelet count and lack of iron frailty (hemoglobin 110 g/L). Other lab discoveries like liver and pancreas chemicals, creatinine, urea and electrolytes were ordinary. Egg whites was low (26 g/L) as it was during earlier weeks.” This sounded more like a single blood test, rather than the result from a set of 20 patients. With some sleuthing, it wasn’t hard to find the original text. Remember, text with tortured phrases is plagiarized text, so translating the text back into regular biomedical expressions could lead you to the source paper. Here, the source paper was a case report about a 15-year old IBD patient, published by Orfei et al. in BMJ Case Reports, in 2019, DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2018-227228. The authors of the 2023 medRxiv preprint appear to have taken the 2019 case report to make it sound like a set of 20 patients.”Bik, Elisabeth. “Discontinuous Ridiculous Stools – a Preprint Full of Tortured Phrases and Stolen Data.” Science Integrity Digest, 2025. [https://scienceintegritydigest.com/2025/07/28/discontinuous-ridiculous-stools-a-preprint-full-of-tortured-phrases-and-stolen-data/](https://scienceintegritydigest.com/2025/07/28/discontinuous-ridiculous-stools-a-preprint-full-of-tortured-phrases-and-stolen-data/).

“A global survey conducted by Nature in July 2023 found that about one-third (31%) of postdoc respondents reported using AI chat-bots for tasks such as refining text, generating or editing code, and managing literature in their fields. Similarly, a global survey of 456 urologists in May 2023 revealed that 47.7% use LLMs. There has been a significant increase in the suspected use of LLMs for writing articles submitted to an orthopedic journal, with 41.0% of articles having suspected AI use over 10%…Moreover, evidence of AI use in reviews was found in a study of AI conference peer reviews that took place after the release of ChatGPT, suggesting that between 6.5% and 16.9% of reviews have been substantially modified by LLMs. […] In a study where ChatGPT-3.5 generated 50 fake research abstracts from titles, only 8% met specific formatting criteria, yet achieved a 100% originality score in plagiarism detectors. While AI detectors identified them as AI-created, human reviewers correctly spotted only 68% as AI-crafted and mistakenly tagged 14% of original abstracts as such.”Ahn, Sangzin. “The Transformative Impact of Large Language Models on Medical Writing and Publishing: Current Applications, Challenges and Future Directions.” The Korean Journal of Physiology & Pharmacology: Official Journal of the Korean Physiological Society and the Korean Society of Pharmacology 28, no. 5 (2024): 393–401. [https://doi.org/10.4196/kjpp.2024.28.5.393](https://doi.org/10.4196/kjpp.2024.28.5.393).

“In this systematic review of animal studies evaluating interventions to reduce the severity of early brain injury after subarachnoid hemorrhage, we demonstrate a high percentage of problematic articles in the evidence base (243/608 included articles; 40.0%). We observed a sudden increase in the number of publications on animal studies investigating early brain injury after subarachnoid hemorrhage, which is in line with a recent bibliometric analysis of clinical and preclinical articles in this field. It seems that the increase was prefaced by a few highly-cited articles expressing the need for more research on the topic. While this call to action was meant to attract scientists with genuine interest in the topic, we hypothesize that it also provided an opportunity for bad actors to publish problematic articles. The rapid growth of the field and the novelty of the research probably made it hard to detect problematic articles for both researchers and publishers.”Aquarius, René, Merel van de Voort, Hieronymus D. Boogaarts, P. Manon Reesink, and Kimberley E. Wever. “High Prevalence of Articles with Image-Related Problems in Animal Studies of Subarachnoid Hemorrhage and Low Rates of Correction by Publishers.” PLoS Biology 23, no. 10 (2025): e3003438. [https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3003438](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3003438).

“While conducting a systematic review of preclinical studies of depression, we found publications displaying research data using problematic images. Many of these images showed evidence suggestive of fabrication or falsification. In the present report, we have systematically assessed and documented the types and frequencies of issues we encountered in our screening process. Based on our findings, it seems fraudulent studies are more frequent than is suggested by many previous estimates. They are also potentially warping the conclusions of our systematic reviews. […] We believe that the missing puzzle piece is to understand that fraud is likely con- ducted by a very small number of people. In our investigation, we found that many of the flagged papers stemmed from the same laboratory, with recurring authors. […] Since reporting 107 problematic studies on the post-publication peer review platform PubPeer…only two publications have been retracted. […] Our screenings show that peer-reviewed reports with problematic images are common within the field of preclinical depression studies. We believe that a majority of these reports had been, in part or completely, fabricated or falsified.”Berrío, Jenny P., and Otto Kalliokoski. “Fraudulent Studies Are Undermining the Reliability of Systematic Reviews: On the Prevalence of Problematic Images in Preclinical Depression Studies.” FEBS Letters 599, no. 11 (2025): 1485–98. [https://doi.org/10.1002/1873-3468.70077](https://doi.org/10.1002/1873-3468.70077).

“Microscopy methods in nanomaterials science are used to determine the uniformity, size, shape, crystallinity, composition, and rigidity of nanomaterials: all crucial properties in drawing valid conclusions useful in a wide range of applications, such as energy storage, catalysis, nanomedicine, and so on. Regrettably, there is a history of scientific misconduct with microscopy methods, generally linked to cropping and pasting images of nanostructures to give an unrepresentative or wrong impression of sample quality. However, this problem has recently become more serious because generative artificial intelligence (AI) is now capable of creating customized fake derivatives of any microscopy or image-based technique. These AI-generated images are virtually indistinguishable from real microscopy images even to a trained human eye. […] We hypothesized that even experts would not always be able to differentiate images with such similar details, noise and heterogeneity. To demonstrate this, we conducted an anonymous survey among scientists, presenting each participant with either the real version or the AI-generated version of the images in Fig. 1. Participants were asked if images were “real”, “fake” or if they were “unsure”. In total, 250 scientists completed the survey…These results are consistent with our hypothesis that scientists cannot discern real nanomaterial images from most AI generated fakes. These AI capabilities are sobering, and only getting better.”Davydiuk, Nadiia, Elisha Krieg, Jens Gaitzsch, et al. “The Rising Danger of AI-Generated Images in Nanomaterials Science and What We Can Do about It.” Nature Nanotechnology 20, no. 9 (2025): 1174–77. [https://doi.org/10.1038/s41565-025-02009-9](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41565-025-02009-9).

“The fact that, despite this small training sets in our study, detection was difficult suggests that technical hurdles for a forged image to remain undetected in a realistic scenario are low. In a realistic scenario, it would be easy to obtain much larger training sets and to synthesize hundreds of images and just use the most convincing one to include in a publication. In addition, in our study participants were explicitly made aware to expect artificial images, a precondition which likely increases detection probability…Finally, the ability of generative algorithms to create realistic images will only increase further in the future. Thus, although our study does not perfectly reflect a real-world scenario, our results clearly demonstrate the difficulty to reliably detect artificial scientific images. Taken together, this raises practical concerns for the scientific community as fraudulently employed synthesized scientific images might frequently remain undetected.”Hartung, Jan, Stefanie Reuter, Vera Anna Kulow, Michael Fähling, Cord Spreckelsen, and Ralf Mrowka. “Experts Fail to Reliably Detect AI-Generated Histological Data.” Scientific Reports 14, no. 1 (2024): 28677. [https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-73913-8](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-73913-8).

“A genome-wide association study (GWAS) is a powerful tool for identifying genetic associations with complex traits. However, even in the era of biobank cohorts, high-quality phenotypic data are often lacking owing to the cost of phenotypic measurements, invasive procedures for sample collection or a lack of commitment to study participation. These challenges reduce the statistical power of GWAS on important phenotypes, compromising genetic discoveries and efforts to uncover new therapeutic targets. To overcome these issues, an emerging solution that is quickly gaining traction in the field is the use of machine learning (ML) to impute missing phenotypes based on observed variables, followed by a GWAS on the imputed phenotypes. We refer to this design as the ML-assisted GWAS. Many recent studies have adopted this design and demonstrated its superior statistical power compared to GWAS that are based on measured phenotypes alone. However, the validity of associations identified in ML-assisted GWAS has not been carefully evaluated. […] We highlight several major advances in our study that will reshape future ML-assisted GWAS applications. First, our study identifies many false-positive associations in conventional ML-assisted GWAS. This is highlighted by the 81% replication failure rate we observed in the GWAS of imputed [Type 2 Diabetes]. This finding has broad implications, suggesting a pervasive issue in current ML-assisted GWAS, especially when the causal relationships between predictor variables and the primary outcome remain unclear…As demonstrated in our T2D example, these conditions are not merely hypothetical but are likely frequently encountered in real-world studies…”Miao, Jiacheng, Yixuan Wu, Zhongxuan Sun, et al. “Valid Inference for Machine Learning-Assisted Genome-Wide Association Studies.” Nature Genetics 56, no. 11 (2024): 2361–69. [https://doi.org/10.1038/s41588-024-01934-0](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41588-024-01934-0).

“Open any of your favourite generative artificial intelligence (GAI) tools, such as ChatGPT, Gemini or Copilot, and ask them to create a picture for you containing molecular structures or the periodic table. At first, you may be seduced by a representation that looks visually appealing, and, in the urgency of modern life, satisfied with a quick fix for your presentation or paper. But take a closer look, and you will likely be dis- appointed. Nonsensical multivalent structures, complete ignorance of valence shell electron pair repulsion (VSEPR) rules, lack of understanding of the bounding principles, imaginary cycles, or arrays of kabbalistic symbols in place of the periodic table. No matter how you ask, or how much prompt engineering you do, you will never end up with a representation that matches how a chemist understands the world. […] As such, letting inaccurate representations of chemistry invade and pollute our visual landscapes risks causing problems in comprehending chemical content, can lead to misunderstandings and can negatively impact training of new scientists. The use of unregulated GAI creates a significant shift in our mental perception of science that we need to consider, monitor and regulate as a community.”Moores, Audrey, and Vânia G. Zuin Zeidler. “Don’t Let Generative AI Shape How We See Chemistry.” Nature Reviews. Chemistry 9, no. 10 (2025): 649–50. [https://doi.org/10.1038/s41570-025-00757-9](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41570-025-00757-9).

## 33-38: Impersonating authors, journals, institutions, or metrics

Impersonation is one of the trickiest types of fraud to identify at this point. If someone claims they are Dr. Clarence Threepwood from Blandings University publishing in the Journal of Porcine Studies (JOPS): – is the author’s name really Clarence Threepwood? If he’s not Threepwood, is that a fake name, or the name of a real researcher and this con man is piggybacking off of his name? – does the author really work for Blandings University (BU)? Is BU a real institution? Is it a ‘mirror’ or copycat institution? Maybe BU doesn’t exist, but Blandings College does.– is the Journal of Porcine Studies a real journal, or a racket run by Threepwood’s friends so they can all publish each other’s papers?– has this article really been cited by 10 other papers, or is there a ‘citation ring,’ of Threepwood’s friends all citing each other’s papers to boost visibility and credibility?

“Several researchers contacted us via ResearchGate with questions about a published article titled ‘Investigating the Effectiveness of Play Therapy on Reducing Despair, and Anxiety in Children with Cancer’ in Clinical Cancer Investigation Journal (Höglund et al. 2024). Upon closer examination, we discovered that the article was published with our names (making up an active research group) listed as authors without our knowledge or consent and containing fabricated data…Traditionally, research fraud has included data fabrication, or fabrication, falsification, plagiarism, and honorary authorships. However, this incident points to another type of fraud where research is published under legitimate author names without their knowledge or contribution. This practice of fabricating data for an entire research group without their involvement may indeed be a new phenomenon.”Godskesen, Tove. “Fraudulent Research Falsely Attributed to Credible Researchers—An Emerging Challenge for Journals?” Learned Publishing 38, no. 3 (2025). [https://doi.org/10.1002/leap.2009](https://doi.org/10.1002/leap.2009).

“This case began as a routine review of a paper, which rapidly escalated into something else. One detail stood out: all the authors on that paper used email addresses ending in uok.edu.gr. At first glance, nothing glaringly suspicious – just an unfamiliar Greek institutional domain attached to the authors’ email addresses. Except that each of the authors listed Chinese research affiliations in the paper. That tiny mismatch was enough to pull a thread. And, as with most investigations in forensic scientometrics, one tug was all it took to unravel the entire garment. The domain could have been the University of Crete, but that institution is uoc.gr, not uok.edu.gr. The difference looks trivial — but isn’t. The research ecosystem is full of invisible trust markers we rely on without realizing it – country-level domains (e.g., gr = Greece), institutional naming conventions (e.g., edu = educational institution), and other email patterns. When one of those markers drifts out of alignment, it raises flags. […] . The first known publication using a uok.edu.gr email address appears in January 2025. Remarkably fast, assuming peer review, revision, and typesetting processes. More followed. Within 12 months, there were:– 57 publications– 44 individual authors with identifiers– 48 institutions 5 very different fields of research– 2 countries– 0 legitimate ties to GreeceNot all authors had identifiers; they are not tied to an affiliation or have no ORCiD, for example. All publications had authors with Chinese names and Chinese institutional affiliations. One person who cannot be verified claimed an affiliation in Malaysia. One person openly claimed an affiliation with the University of Crete – but had no co- authors from Greece and no publication history connected to the region. Naturally, that person’s email at uok.edu.gr bounces.”McIntosh, Leslie. “Rogue Domains: When a University Isn’t a University.” Forensic Scientometrics, December 11, 2025. [https://fosci.substack.com/p/rogue-domains-when-a-university-isnt](https://fosci.substack.com/p/rogue-domains-when-a-university-isnt).

“A disreputable scientific journal used generative AI to create bogus papers, using the names of three Japanese researchers without permission in what is thought to be an instance of “predatory publishing,” the Mainichi Shimbun has learned.”Shimpei, Torii. “Fake Scientific Papers Made with AI Used Names of 3 Japan Researchers.” The Mainichi, January 15, 2025. [https://mainichi.jp/english/articles/20250115/p2a/00m/0sc/021000c](https://mainichi.jp/english/articles/20250115/p2a/00m/0sc/021000c).

“To achieve this, we analyzed a dataset of 2,755 journals from the Predatory Reports list. […] Our initial analysis revealed that 24% of the journals listed on the Predatory Reports platform became inaccessible following their inclusion in the list. This finding highlights a significant issue: some journals associated with questionable practices often shut down their operations, remove published articles, or rebrand under a different name as soon as they are labeled.”Zehra, Taskin, Doğan Güleda, Kaya İdris Semih, et al. “Not All ‘Predators’ Are the Same: Exploring the Spectrum of Questionable Journals.” SocArXiv, ahead of print, 2025. [https://doi.org/10.31235/osf.io/gjfyw_v1](https://doi.org/10.31235/osf.io/gjfyw_v1).

“First, between 2001 and 2011, the HCR list appeared to be a biographical and bibliographical database, developed on a stable methodology and made avail- able to the scientific community to identify determining influences in different fields of research. Between 2012 and 2018, this tool was gradually transformed into an indicator of scientific excellence, at the level of an individual researcher, an institution, or a country, subject to numerous methodological adjustments and used by the scientific community. Finally, from 2019 to 2023, this strategy was undermined by the growing importance of scientific misconduct, requiring the introduction of an evaluation and selection methodology based on a qualitative approach, as well as the involvement of new actors likely to support the ISI and Clarivate in this process.”Chaignon, Lauranne. “Highly Cited Researchers: Anatomy of a List.” Quantitative Science Studies, 2025, 1–26. [https://doi.org/10.1162/qss_a_00351](https://doi.org/10.1162/qss_a_00351).

“Ever more sophisticated approaches have evolved to provide inflated metrics such as Reads and Recommendations on [ResearchGate]…For example, a researcher’s cold fusion papers and his January 2019 preprint have accumulated a truly extraordinary number of Reads and Recommendations on RG (Tables 1a and 1b). His latest non-refereed preprint had over 68,000 Reads in September 2021, and as of March 2024, this arcane quantum physics preprint has over 128,000 Reads on RG. This preprint has the most Reads of any physics paper in the history of RG, far more than peer-reviewed papers authored by world-famous physicists and Physics Nobel Laureates. It may well be the most widely read paper in RG’s history. […] Perhaps the most astounding example of fake recommendations we have found on RG is a four-year-old publication with only one Read but that miraculously received 14 Recommendations. One metrics manipulator from India has somehow managed to accumulate over 342,000 Recommendations on RG (as of 21 March 2024). Another appalling aspect is that this systematic “Recommendations” metric fraud is still occurring in March 2024, one year after RG eliminated its “Projects” feature. Clearly, the RG metrics manipulators have found another way to communicate and coordinate their efforts.”Kirilova, Savina, and Fred Zoepfl. “Metrics Fraud on ResearchGate.” Journal of Informetrics 19, no. 1 (2025): 101604. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joi.2024.101604](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joi.2024.101604).

## 39-45: Retractions

Retractions seem simple: a journal article is withdrawn, because of serious mistakes or fraud. However, every publisher has a different way of actually withdrawing the article. Some delete the article from their website; some keep the article up, but put “RETRACTED” on every page; some delete the article, and replace it with a retraction notice. There is also no automatic way to be informed that an article has been retracted. Is every Twitter account, blog writer, and Wikipedia editor checking every single article they link to – not just once, but routinely? Many, if not most, retractions occur years after the initial publication. When LLMs like ChatGPT bother to provide real references, those LLMs are notorious for not identifying which of those references have been edited or retracted.

“Retracted randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have an enduring and multiplicative impact of the evidence ecosystem, by distorting findings of systematic reviews and meta- analyses , which then percolate into clinical practice guidelines . Previous research has described super-retractors, scientists who have amassed numerous retractions. ..Multiple retractions from the same author often uncover issues affecting an author’s entire work, e.g. systematically altered or fabricated data. However, there are no estimations of the contribution of super-retractors or top-cited authors with multiple retractions to the retracted RCT literature. We aimed to quantify this contribution..The VITALITY cohort includes 1330 RCTs with notification of retraction, identified from the Retraction Watch (RW) (updated November 5 th 2024). […] Six super-retractors, representing two fields of medicine, account for one fifth of all retracted randomized trials. Similarly, 18 top-cited scientists with over 10 retractions account for a quarter of all retracted RCTs. All but 1 of the super-retractors involved in retracted RCTs were also among the top-cited over their career.”Lyu, Chunwei, Minoo Matbouriahi, Florian Naudet, John P.A. Ioannidis, and Ioana Alina Cristea. “Retracted Randomized Trials Attributed to Super-Retractors and Top-Cited Scientists with Multiple Retractions: Secondary Analysis of the VITALITY Retrospective Cohort.” MedRxiv, ahead of print, 2025. [https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.11.23.25340834](https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.11.23.25340834).

In an analysis of 1,181 retracted articles that are referenced on Wikipedia pages, 76% of those articles have no indication they are retracted. 20% of the retracted articles were cited on Wikipedia *after the articles had been retracted online.* “Our survival analysis shows the extent of this delay: the median time to correction is 3.68 years, and a “long tail” of persistence indicates that 67.3% of problematic citations remain uncorrected after nearly 2.74 years.”Shi, Haohan, Yulin Yu, Daniel M. Romero, and Emőke-Ágnes Horvát. “When Collaborative Maintenance Falls Short: The Persistence of Retracted Papers on Wikipedia.” ArXiv, 2025. [https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.18403v2](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.18403v2).

“None of the 217 × 30 ChatGPT reports on the quality of the 217 articles mentioned retractions, corrections, or ethical problems. Although a few mentioned errors (e.g., “the article could benefit from enhanced transparency regarding data collection methods, particularly concerning dietary compliance and measurement error related to waist circumference”), none were relevant to the associated retraction or correction statement. Thus, ChatGPT seems to never directly mention retraction or correction information in response to a request to evaluate an article’s quality. Possible explanations are that it does not know about the retractions/corrections (which seems unlikely since they are on the public web) or that it is not able or willing to reliably associate the retraction/correction information with an article’s title and abstract. This latter point essentially suggests that ChatGPT might not fully “comprehend” the meaning of a retraction notice that has been attached to an article (usually in the title), indicating to a human reader that the article has been f lagged as f lawed and it should not be trusted or used.”Thelwall, Mike, Marianna Lehtisaari, Irini Katsirea, Kim Holmberg, and Er‐Te Zheng. “Does ChatGPT Ignore Article Retractions and Other Reliability Concerns?” Learned Publishing 38, no. 4 (2025). [https://doi.org/10.1002/leap.2018](https://doi.org/10.1002/leap.2018).

“Altogether, we identified 21 retracted research articles published from 13 journals (Supplementary Material)). […] These 21 articles were cited by authors a total of 72 times. Three months after the announcement of retractions, they were cited 26 times. Ten retracted articles were cited at least one time 3 months after the journal announced the retraction of the article. […]For the test of the utilization of retracted articles by ChatGPT, we found that in 5 times ChatGPT answered our questions based on retracted articles. […] In two cases, ChatGPT provided wrong titles of the articles when answering questions. […] These data suggest that at least there is a 10 % of chance that ChatGPT still answers questions based on retracted articles and does not notice the retraction status of the article.”Gu, Tianshu, Helin Feng, Minghui Li, Weikuan Gu, and Guiying Wang. “Alarm: Retracted Articles on Cancer Imaging Are Not Only Continuously Cited by Publications but Also Used by ChatGPT to Answer Questions.” Journal of Advanced Research 71 (May 2025): 1–3. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jare.2025.03.020](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jare.2025.03.020).

“In the past two decades, the number of retracted scientific articles has continued to steadily increase. This is especially true in obstetrics and maternal-fetal medicine, where over three-quarters of retractions have occurred in the past decade.”Lawson, Sarah, Georgios Doulaveris, Kathryn Anderson, Carrie Bennett, and Vincenzo Berghella. “Retracted vs Non-Retracted Obstetrical Randomized Trials: Which Quality Criteria Are Most Associated with Retraction for Untrustworthiness?” European Journal of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Biology 309 (May 2025): 137–42. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejogrb.2025.03.047](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejogrb.2025.03.047).

“Achal Agrawal had just finished giving a lecture when an enthusiastic undergraduate student approached him with an idea for a research project. Agrawal was delighted, until the student described how he had previously used software to paraphrase published work. Agrawal explained that doing so was considered plagiarism — a serious violation of research integrity — but the student insisted that it was not, because the work passed the university’s plagiarism checks. […] This year, Agrawal’s efforts, as well as those of others, contributed to a landmark policy change in how higher-education institutions in India are ranked. In August, the Indian government announced that the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), which assesses universities yearly and influences their eligibility for some grant schemes, will penalize institutions if a considerable number of papers published by their researchers has been retracted. The move — a first for such a ranking system — aims to combat unethical practices. Some institutions have already had marks deducted from their current scores, and penalties are expected to be more stringent next year. […] But this progress has come at a high cost to Agrawal. He has been unable to find employment and is now facing a lawsuit filed by a private university against seven members of the IRW.”Naddaf, Miryam. “This Science Sleuth Revealed a Retraction Crisis at Indian Universities.” Nature 648, no. 8094 (2025): 518. [https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03839-2](https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03839-2).

“Carlisle reported that among >500 [randomized controlled trials] submitted to the journal Anaesthesia, 73 (14%) contained false data and 43 (8%) were deemed fatally flawed ‘zombie trials’. Based on this, Ioannidis estimated that there could be hundreds of thousands of problematic RCTs across all disciplines that go unchallenged and can even be harmful.” […] “In this series of almost 900 papers, we found delays in academic publishers’ responses to flagged problematic papers. A decision was reached on less than a third of flagged cases over a median time of over 3 years, and only 13% was resolved within a year. About 85% of the decisions were retractions or EoC…Although we flagged >900 potentially problematic papers, mostly in women’s health, this probably represents only a small fraction of the problematic papers circulating in the literature if we assume a rate of 5%–10% of all research papers and 25% of [randomized controlled trials].”Shivantha, Siddharth, Nicole Ling Shan Au, Lyle Gurrin, Jim Thornton, Jeremy Nielsen, and Ben W. Mol. “Publishers’ Response to Post-Publication Concerns About Clinical Research in Women’s Health.” BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology 132, no. 7 (2025): 892–901. [https://doi.org/10.1111/1471-0528.18100](https://doi.org/10.1111/1471-0528.18100).

## 46-50: Bots and crawlers

We all rely on search engines, and those search engines rely on bots that ‘crawl’ all of the web pages they can get their hands on. GenAI web crawlers not only violate every copyright law known to man by stealing and reusing oceans of proprietary books, journals, etc., but their web crawling is so intense that it can knock entire websites offline. Library catalogs, museums, scholarly journals, newspaper collections, cultural heritage organizations, will all need to consider a) keeping their content available online and risking attacks or thefts, or b) removing everyone’s access entirely. Bots may also be used to flood online surveys, a type of research data many disciplines rely on. In every article I read about surveys and bots, the survey runners decided to cancel their survey entirely because the data was rendered useless by genAI bots.

“Traffic from bots run by artificial intelligence companies is disrupting scientific journal websites. Some publications report that their websites are now visited more by bots than by genuine users. […] Mulvany said that BMJ group journals were accessed more than 100 million times from data centers in Hong Kong and Singapore in a recent 3-week period alone. […] But turning off all access to AI tools also affects useful bots. For example, the revered Internet Archive uses bots to preserve digital content by feeding it into the Wayback Machine, an archive of billions of web pages.”Chawla, Dalmeet Singh. “AI Bots Are Overwhelming Some Journals.” C&EN: Chemical and Engineering News, April 16, 2025. [https://cen.acs.org/policy/publishing/AI-bots-overwhelming-journals/103/web/2025/04](https://cen.acs.org/policy/publishing/AI-bots-overwhelming-journals/103/web/2025/04).

“A bot will land on a page, download everything it can, and then follow every link on the page in search of new data. Unlike people who tend to focus on predictable parts of a collection, the bots just want everything. Many people compare the swarms to Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks, in the sense that they quickly overwhelm the site with volume. However, unlike a traditional DDoS attack, they are not intended to knock the site offline. Instead, the site being knocked offline is a side effect of harvesting the data at scale. These incidents tend to last for relatively short periods of time (measured in minutes, maybe an hour or two). Then the swarm moves on. […] The swarms tend to overload servers. That results in slower response times for normal users. Eventually, the volume will knock the server offline entirely. […] I worry that bots will drive up costs for hosting current collections. It may also make institutions reluctant to create new open access and digitally accessible collections.”Hinchliffe, Lisa. “Are AI Bots Knocking Digital Collections Offline? An Interview with Michael Weinberg.” The Scholarly Kitchen, June 23, 2025. [https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2025/06/23/are-ai-bots-knocking-digital-collections-offline/](https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2025/06/23/are-ai-bots-knocking-digital-collections-offline/).

“Pinzon et al. found that usable responses from online surveys have declined from 75% to 10% in recent years due to survey fraud. […] Imes et al. specifically examined the feasibility of using X (formerly Twitter) to recruit nurses in the United States for a survey about various professional topics. Over 95% of the 512 responses were considered to be bot-generated…In another study by Pozzar et al., 94.5% of the 271 surveys completed were identified as fraudulent. Krawczyk and Siek recently created an initial interest survey to collect demographic data and gauge general interest in abortion storytelling to inform a full study design. Within 4 h of opening their survey, they received 981 responses, of which only three were considered authentic after performing “consistency checks” on responses to similar questions to identify self-contradiction. Finally, in an online survey of approximately 1168 beekeepers in the United States, over 2622 responses were received—only 4% were deemed legitimate—the rest were bot-generated.”Bonnamy, James, Bethany Carr, Michelle D. Lazarus, and Clifford Connell. “Survey Sabotage: Insights into Reducing the Risk of Fraudulent Responses in Online Surveys.” Anatomical Sciences Education 18, no. 8 (2025): 767–73. [https://doi.org/10.1002/ase.70015](https://doi.org/10.1002/ase.70015).

“Our experience of primary data collection using a survey distributed through social media detected over 75% of survey respondents as fraudulent, similar to findings of other researchers.”Caven, Isabelle, Zhenxiao Yang, and Karen Okrainec. “It’s Raining Bots: How Easier Access to Internet Surveys Has Created the Perfect Storm.” BMJ Open Quality 14, no. 2 (2025): e003208. [https://doi.org/10.1136/bmjoq-2024-003208](https://doi.org/10.1136/bmjoq-2024-003208).

“In February, the online image repository DiscoverLife, which contains nearly three million photographs of different species, started to receive millions of hits to its web- site every day — a much higher volume than normal. At times, this spike in traffic was so high that it slowed the site down to the point that it became unusable. The culprit? Bots. […] This year, the BMJ, a publisher of medical journals based in London, has seen bot traffic to its websites surpass that of real users. The aggressive behaviour of these bots overloaded the publisher’s servers and led to interruptions in services for legitimate customers, says Ian Mulvany, BMJ’s chief technology officer. […] The Confederation of Open Access Repos- itories (COAR) reported in April that more than 90% of 66 members it had surveyed had experienced AI bots scraping content from their sites — of which roughly two-thirds had experienced service disruptions as a result. […] But in many cases, it is difficult to restrict bots’ access without adversely affecting normal users. […] “What we really need are international agreements on AI fair use and respect for these sorts of resources,” Orr says. “Otherwise, downstream, there’s going to be no such resource for these tools to actually train on.””Kwon, Diana. “Web-Scraping AI Bots Cause Disruption for Scientific Databases and Journals.” Nature 642, no. 8067 (2025): 281–82. [https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-01661-4](https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-01661-4).